Beavers (genus Castor) are large, semiaquatic rodents of the Northern Hemisphere. There are two existing species: the North American beaver (Castor canadensis) and the Eurasian beaver (C. fiber). They are herbivorous, consuming tree bark, aquatic plants, grasses and sedges. After their first year, the young help their parents repair dams and lodges; older siblings may also help raise newly-born offspring. Historically, beavers have been hunted for their fur, meat, and castoreum. Their populations have since rebounded, and they are listed as species of least concern by the IUCN Red List of mammals. However, they were not confirmed to be separate species until the 1970s, when chromosomal evidence became available. ( The difference in chromosome numbers prevents them from interbreeding. Castoroides is estimated to have had a length of 1.9–2.2 m (6.2–7.2 ft) and a weight of 90–125 kg (198–276 lb). == Characteristics ==

Beavers are the second-largest living rodents, after capybaras. Beavers have one premolar and three molars on all four sides of the jaws, adding up to 20 teeth. The eyes, ears and nostrils are arranged so that they can remain above water while the rest of the body is submerged. A beaver's lips can close behind the incisors, preventing water from entering their mouths as they cut and bite onto things while submerged. They can carry objects while walking on their hind legs. The cloaca evolved secondarily, as most mammals have lost this feature, and may reduce the area vulnerable to infection in dirty water. Female beavers have four mammary glands; these produce milk with 19 percent fat, a higher fat content than other rodents. Touch is more advanced in the lips and hands than the whiskers and tail. Vision in the beaver is relatively poor; the beaver eye cannot see as well underwater as an otter. Beavers can hold their breath for as long as 15 minutes but typically remain underwater for no more than five or six minutes. When diving, their heart rate decreases to 60 beats per minute, half its normal pace, and blood flow is directed more towards the brain. Small native populations are also present in Mongolia and northwestern China; their numbers were estimated at 150 and 700, respectively, as of 2016. == Ecology ==

Beavers live in freshwater ecosystems such as rivers, streams, lakes and ponds. They also prefer areas with no regular flooding and may abandon a location for years after a significant flood. Beavers have also been recorded in mountainous areas. Tree branches are then cut and carried to their destination with the powerful jaw and neck muscles. To build a dam, beavers stack up relatively long and thick logs between banks and in opposite directions. Beavers continue to pile on more material until the dam slopes in a direction facing upstream. Bank lodges are burrows dug along the shore and covered in sticks. Families routinely clean out old plant material and bring in new material. North American beavers build more open-water lodges than Eurasian beavers. Beaver activity can affect the temperature of the water; in northern latitudes, ice thaws earlier in the warmer beaver-dammed waters. Riparian ecosystems in arid areas appear to sustain more plant life when beaver dams are present. Beaver ponds act as a refuge for riverbank plants during wildfires, and provide them with enough moisture to resist such fires. Introduced beavers at Tierra del Fuego have been responsible for destroying the indigenous forest. These species use beaver habitats for spawning, overwintering, feeding, and as havens from changes in water flow. The positive effects of beaver dams on fish appear to outweigh the negative effects, such as blocking of migration. Other semi-aquatic mammals, such as water voles, muskrats, minks, and otters, will shelter in beaver lodges. Adult beavers mate with their partners, though partner replacement appears to be common. A beaver that loses its partner will wait for another one to come by. Up to four young, or kits, are born in spring and summer, after a three or four-month gestation. Newborn beavers are precocial with a full fur coat, and can open their eyes within days of birth. Their mother is the primary caretaker, while their father maintains the territory. Beavers are able to travel greater distances when free-flowing water is available. Anal gland secretion profiles are more similar among relatives than unrelated individuals. Defensive beavers produce a hissing growl and gnash their teeth. Eurasian beavers have been recorded using a territorial "stick display", which involves individuals holding up a stick and bouncing in shallow water. The Martinez beavers became famous in the mid-2000s for their role in improving the ecosystem of Alhambra Creek in Martinez, California. === In culture ===

The beaver has been used to represent productivity, trade, tradition, masculinity, and respectability. In a Cree story, the Great Beaver and its dam caused a world flood. However, the beaver's status as a rodent has made it controversial, and it was not chosen to be on the Arms of Canada in 1921. The beaver has commonly been used to represent Canada in political cartoons, typically to signify it as a friendly but relatively weak nation.